README.md, before:

# Technology-Agnostic Development Template

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/agents-templated.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/agents-templated)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/agents-templated.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/agents-templated)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/rickandrew2/agents-projects-templated?style=social)](https://github.com/rickandrew2/agents-projects-templated)

A flexible, enterprise-grade development template that adapts to any modern technology stack while maintaining security-first development patterns, comprehensive testing, and excellent developer experience. Built with AI assistant integration for Cursor, GitHub Copilot, and other AI coding tools.

## Overview

This template provides a proven agent-based development structure that works with any technology stack. It includes comprehensive rules, patterns, and guidelines that help both developers and AI assistants maintain consistent, secure, and high-quality code across different projects.

## Key Features

- **Technology-Agnostic**: Works with React, Vue, Angular, Node.js, Python, Go, Rust, or any modern stack
- **AI Assistant Ready**: Pre-configured for Cursor, GitHub Copilot, and other AI coding tools
- **Security-First**: Built-in OWASP Top 10 protection patterns and security guidelines
- **Comprehensive Testing**: Testing strategy with unit, integration, and E2E coverage targets
- **Agent-Based Architecture**: Specialized agents for frontend, backend, database, testing, and security
- **Type-Safe Patterns**: Strong typing and validation patterns across the stack
- **Accessibility Compliant**: WCAG 2.1 AA standards built into development patterns

## Quick Start

### Installation Options

**Option 1: NPM Package (Recommended for Existing Projects)**

Install globally and use in any project:

```bash
# Install globally
npm install -g agents-templated

# Use in any existing project
cd your-existing-project
agents-templated init
```

Or install locally per project:

```bash
# Install as dev dependency
npm install --save-dev agents-templated

# Initialize templates
npx agents-templated init
```

**Option 2: Clone Template (New Projects)**

```bash
git clone <this-repo> my-project
cd my-project
```

### CLI Usage

```bash
# Install all components
agents-templated init --all

# Install specific components
agents-templated init --docs        # Documentation only
agents-templated init --rules       # Agent rules only
agents-templated init --skills      # Skills only
agents-templated init --github      # GitHub Copilot config

# Force overwrite existing files
agents-templated init --all --force

# List available components
agents-templated list
```

### Choose Your Technology Stack

This template adapts to your preferred technologies:

**Frontend Options:**
- React/Next.js, Vue/Nuxt, Angular, Svelte/SvelteKit, or traditional SSR

**Backend Options:**
- Node.js (Express/Fastify), Python (Django/FastAPI), Go, Rust, Java/Spring

**Database Options:**
- PostgreSQL/MySQL with ORM, MongoDB/NoSQL, or cloud solutions like Supabase

### Configure AI Assistants

The template includes configuration files for multiple AI assistants:

- **Cursor**: Uses `.cursorrules` and `agents/rules/*.mdc` files (auto-loaded)
- **GitHub Copilot**: Uses `.github/copilot-instructions.md` (auto-loaded)
- **Other AI Tools**: Reference `AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md` in your prompts

### Initialize Your Project

Set up your chosen technologies:

```bash
# Example for Node.js + React
npm init -y
npm install react next typescript

# Example for Python + Django
pip install django djangorestframework
django-admin startproject myproject .

# Example for Go + Gin
go mod init myproject
go get github.com/gin-gonic/gin
```

## Programmatic API

Use agents-templated programmatically in your build scripts:

```javascript
const agentsTemplated = require('agents-templated');

// Install all components
await agentsTemplated.install('./my-project', {
  force: true
});

// Install specific components
await agentsTemplated.install('./my-project', {
  docs: true,
  rules: true,
  skills: false,
  github: true,
  force: false
});
```

## Directory Structure

```
├── agents/                          # Agent rules and skills
│   ├── rules/                      # Development rules and patterns
│   │   ├── core.mdc               # Core architecture guidelines
│   │   ├── security.mdc           # Security patterns and requirements
│   │   ├── testing.mdc            # Testing strategy and patterns
│   │   ├── frontend.mdc           # Frontend development patterns
│   │   ├── database.mdc           # Database design and patterns
│   │   └── style.mdc              # Code style and formatting rules
│   └── skills/                     # Reusable agent skills
│       ├── web-design-guidelines/  # Web interface guidelines skill
│       └── find-skills/           # Skill discovery utilities
├── .github/
│   └── copilot-instructions.md    # GitHub Copilot configuration
├── AGENTS.md                       # Agent responsibilities and usage guide
├── CLAUDE.md                       # Project guidelines and architecture
├── AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md              # Universal AI assistant instructions
├── .cursorrules                    # Cursor AI assistant configuration
├── .aiderignore                    # Aider AI assistant ignore patterns
├── .editorconfig                   # Editor configuration
├── .gitignore                      # Git ignore patterns
└── README.md                       # This file
```

## Core Configuration Files

### Documentation Files

- **`CLAUDE.md`** - Overall project guidelines, architecture principles, and technology stack selection
- **`AGENTS.md`** - Agent delegation patterns, responsibilities, and when to use each agent
- **`AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md`** - Universal instructions for any AI assistant (reference explicitly)

### AI Assistant Configuration

- **`.cursorrules`** - Cursor-specific rules (auto-loaded by Cursor)
- **`.github/copilot-instructions.md`** - GitHub Copilot instructions (auto-loaded)
- **`agents/rules/*.mdc`** - Detailed rules with `alwaysApply: true` for auto-loading in Cursor

### Rule Files

- **`agents/rules/core.mdc`** - Core architecture principles and best practices
- **`agents/rules/security.mdc`** - Security patterns, OWASP Top 10 protection
- **`agents/rules/testing.mdc`** - Testing strategy, coverage targets, patterns
- **`agents/rules/frontend.mdc`** - Frontend development patterns and accessibility
- **`agents/rules/database.mdc`** - Database schema design and query optimization
- **`agents/rules/style.mdc`** - Code style guidelines and formatting rules

## Agent-Based Development

This template uses specialized agents for different aspects of development:

### FrontendAgent
Handles UI/UX development, component creation, design system implementation, and accessibility compliance.

### BackendAgent
Manages API development, business logic, authentication, authorization, rate limiting, and security middleware.

### DatabaseAgent
Owns database schema design, migrations, query optimization, and data access patterns.

### TestAgent
Implements comprehensive testing strategy across unit, integration, E2E, accessibility, and security testing.

### SecurityAgent
Ensures security-first development with input validation, authentication patterns, authorization checks, and OWASP compliance.

### ReviewerAgent
Performs code reviews focusing on correctness, security, performance, test coverage, and accessibility.

## Core Principles

### Security-First Development
- Validate all inputs at application boundaries with schema validation
- Authenticate and authorize every protected endpoint
- Rate limit public endpoints to prevent abuse
- Sanitize outputs to prevent injection attacks
- Never expose sensitive data in error messages or logs

### Testing Strategy
- **Unit Tests**: 80% coverage for business logic
- **Integration Tests**: 15% coverage for API endpoints and database operations
- **E2E Tests**: 5% coverage for critical user journeys
- **Accessibility Tests**: WCAG 2.1 AA compliance for all UI

### Type Safety
- Use strong typing systems available in your chosen language
- Implement runtime validation for all external/user-provided data
- Validate at boundaries: API endpoints, form submissions, configuration
- Generate types from schemas when possible (OpenAPI, GraphQL, database schemas)

### Code Quality
- Maintain consistent patterns throughout the codebase
- Follow established code style guidelines
- Ensure proper error handling and logging
- Keep documentation updated with code changes

## Security Patterns

### Input Validation Example

```typescript
// TypeScript with Zod
import { z } from 'zod'

const userSchema = z.object({
  email: z.string().email().toLowerCase(),
  password: z.string().min(8)
})
```

```python
# Python with Pydantic
from pydantic import BaseModel, EmailStr

class User(BaseModel):
    email: EmailStr
    password: str
```

### Rate Limiting Example

```javascript
// Node.js with express-rate-limit
const rateLimit = require('express-rate-limit')

const authLimiter = rateLimit({
  windowMs: 15 * 60 * 1000, // 15 minutes
  max: 5, // 5 attempts per window
  message: 'Too many authentication attempts'
})
```

## Testing Strategy

### Coverage Targets
- **Unit Tests**: 80% coverage for business logic
- **Integration Tests**: 15% coverage for API endpoints and database operations
- **E2E Tests**: 5% coverage for critical user journeys

### Testing Tools by Technology

**JavaScript/TypeScript:**
- Unit/Integration: Jest, Vitest, or framework-specific test runners
- E2E: Playwright, Cypress, or Selenium
- Component: Testing Library, Enzyme

**Python:**
- Unit/Integration: pytest, unittest
- E2E: Selenium, Playwright
- API: requests, httpx

**Go:**
- Unit/Integration: Built-in testing package, testify
- E2E: Selenium, Playwright
- HTTP: httptest package

## AI Assistant Integration

### Cursor
Rules are automatically loaded from:
- `.cursorrules` file
- `agents/rules/*.mdc` files with `alwaysApply: true`
- `AGENTS.md` and `CLAUDE.md` (via workspace rules)

### GitHub Copilot
Instructions are automatically loaded from:
- `.github/copilot-instructions.md`

### Other AI Assistants
Reference `AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md` explicitly in your prompts:
- "Follow the patterns in `AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md`"
- "Check `AGENTS.md` for agent delegation"
- "Apply security patterns from `agents/rules/security.mdc`"

## Usage Examples

### Frontend Development
```
"Create a responsive navigation component with accessibility support"
"Redesign the user profile page following our design system"
"Implement the login form with proper validation"
```

### Backend Development
```
"Create a secure user registration endpoint with rate limiting"
"Implement JWT authentication middleware"
"Add password reset functionality with email verification"
```

### Database Operations
```
"Design a user roles and permissions schema"
"Create a migration to add audit logging"
"Optimize the user query to prevent N+1 problems"
```

## Documentation

### Getting Started
1. Review `CLAUDE.md` for architecture and technology selection guidance
2. Check `AGENTS.md` for agent responsibilities and delegation patterns
3. Reference `agents/rules/*.mdc` files for detailed implementation patterns
4. Configure your AI assistant using the appropriate configuration file

### Additional Resources
- **Architecture**: See `CLAUDE.md` for detailed architecture guidelines
- **Agent Usage**: See `AGENTS.md` for detailed agent responsibilities
- **Security**: See `agents/rules/security.mdc` for security patterns
- **Testing**: See `agents/rules/testing.mdc` for testing strategy
- **Code Style**: See `agents/rules/style.mdc` for formatting rules

## Quality Gates

All code must meet these standards:
- Pass linting and formatting checks
- Meet minimum test coverage thresholds (80% unit, 15% integration, 5% E2E)
- Pass security scans without high-severity issues
- Pass accessibility tests for user-facing features
- Follow established patterns and conventions

## Contributing

When contributing to this template:
1. Maintain technology-agnostic patterns
2. Update relevant rule files in `agents/rules/`
3. Keep documentation synchronized with code changes
4. Follow security and testing patterns
5. Ensure AI assistant configurations remain compatible

---

**Ready to start building?** Choose your technology stack, adapt the configuration files, and begin development with enterprise-grade patterns from day one.

Commit message:

Clarify README: remove misleading 'adapts' language, explicitly state package does not install tech stack

README.md, after:

# Technology-Agnostic Development Template

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/agents-templated.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/agents-templated)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/agents-templated.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/agents-templated)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/rickandrew2/agents-projects-templated?style=social)](https://github.com/rickandrew2/agents-projects-templated)

An enterprise-grade development template that works with any technology stack. Provides proven patterns, security guidelines, and AI assistant integration for Cursor and GitHub Copilot. You choose your tech stack (React, Django, Go, etc.) and install it separately—this package scaffolds the structure and patterns you'll follow.

## Overview

This template provides proven development patterns and guidelines that work with **any** technology stack. It scaffolds project structure, AI assistant configurations, and security patterns—but does **not** install tech packages for you. After running `agents-templated init`, you independently install your chosen frameworks (React, Django, Go, etc.) into the scaffolded structure.

## Key Features

- **Technology-Agnostic Templates**: Provides patterns and structure that work with any tech stack (React, Vue, Django, Go, etc.)
- **AI Assistant Ready**: Pre-configured instructions for Cursor, GitHub Copilot, and other AI coding tools
- **Security-First Patterns**: Built-in OWASP Top 10 protection patterns and security guidelines
- **Testing Strategy**: Defined testing approach with unit, integration, and E2E coverage targets
- **Agent-Based Architecture**: Guides for specialized agents (frontend, backend, database, testing, security)
- **Type-Safe Development**: Type validation patterns applicable to any language
- **Accessibility Guidelines**: WCAG 2.1 AA compliance patterns built into development guides

## Quick Start

### Installation Options

**Option 1: NPM Package (Recommended for Existing Projects)**

Install globally and use in any project:

```bash
# Install globally
npm install -g agents-templated

# Use in any existing project
cd your-existing-project
agents-templated init
```

Or install locally per project:

```bash
# Install as dev dependency
npm install --save-dev agents-templated

# Initialize templates
npx agents-templated init
```

**Option 2: Clone Template (New Projects)**

```bash
git clone <this-repo> my-project
cd my-project
```

### CLI Usage

```bash
# Install all components
agents-templated init --all

# Install specific components
agents-templated init --docs        # Documentation only
agents-templated init --rules       # Agent rules only
agents-templated init --skills      # Skills only
agents-templated init --github      # GitHub Copilot config

# Force overwrite existing files
agents-templated init --all --force

# List available components
agents-templated list
```

### Step 2: Choose Your Technology Stack

After running `agents-templated init`, select and install your preferred technologies. The template works with **any** modern stack:

**Frontend Options:**
- React/Next.js, Vue/Nuxt, Angular, Svelte/SvelteKit, or traditional SSR

**Backend Options:**
- Node.js (Express/Fastify), Python (Django/FastAPI), Go, Rust, Java/Spring

**Database Options:**
- PostgreSQL/MySQL with ORM, MongoDB/NoSQL, or cloud solutions like Supabase

**Note:** You must install these packages yourself—the template doesn't include them.

### Configure AI Assistants

The template includes configuration files for multiple AI assistants:

- **Cursor**: Uses `.cursorrules` and `agents/rules/*.mdc` files (auto-loaded)
- **GitHub Copilot**: Uses `.github/copilot-instructions.md` (auto-loaded)
- **Other AI Tools**: Reference `AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md` in your prompts

### Step 3: Install Your Technology Stack

Once the template is initialized, install your chosen framework and dependencies:

```bash
# Example for Node.js + React
npm init -y
npm install react next typescript

# Example for Python + Django
pip install django djangorestframework
django-admin startproject myproject .

# Example for Go + Gin
go mod init myproject
go get github.com/gin-gonic/gin
```

**Important:** `agents-templated init` only provides templates and patterns. You must install framework packages separately using npm, pip, go, or your tech stack's package manager.

## Programmatic API

Use agents-templated programmatically in your build scripts:

```javascript
const agentsTemplated = require('agents-templated');

// Install all components
await agentsTemplated.install('./my-project', {
  force: true
});

// Install specific components
await agentsTemplated.install('./my-project', {
  docs: true,
  rules: true,
  skills: false,
  github: true,
  force: false
});
```

## Directory Structure

```
├── agents/                          # Agent rules and skills
│   ├── rules/                      # Development rules and patterns
│   │   ├── core.mdc               # Core architecture guidelines
│   │   ├── security.mdc           # Security patterns and requirements
│   │   ├── testing.mdc            # Testing strategy and patterns
│   │   ├── frontend.mdc           # Frontend development patterns
│   │   ├── database.mdc           # Database design and patterns
│   │   └── style.mdc              # Code style and formatting rules
│   └── skills/                     # Reusable agent skills
│       ├── web-design-guidelines/  # Web interface guidelines skill
│       └── find-skills/           # Skill discovery utilities
├── .github/
│   └── copilot-instructions.md    # GitHub Copilot configuration
├── AGENTS.md                       # Agent responsibilities and usage guide
├── CLAUDE.md                       # Project guidelines and architecture
├── AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md              # Universal AI assistant instructions
├── .cursorrules                    # Cursor AI assistant configuration
├── .aiderignore                    # Aider AI assistant ignore patterns
├── .editorconfig                   # Editor configuration
├── .gitignore                      # Git ignore patterns
└── README.md                       # This file
```

## Core Configuration Files

### Documentation Files

- **`CLAUDE.md`** - Overall project guidelines, architecture principles, and technology stack selection
- **`AGENTS.md`** - Agent delegation patterns, responsibilities, and when to use each agent
- **`AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md`** - Universal instructions for any AI assistant (reference explicitly)

### AI Assistant Configuration

- **`.cursorrules`** - Cursor-specific rules (auto-loaded by Cursor)
- **`.github/copilot-instructions.md`** - GitHub Copilot instructions (auto-loaded)
- **`agents/rules/*.mdc`** - Detailed rules with `alwaysApply: true` for auto-loading in Cursor

### Rule Files

- **`agents/rules/core.mdc`** - Core architecture principles and best practices
- **`agents/rules/security.mdc`** - Security patterns, OWASP Top 10 protection
- **`agents/rules/testing.mdc`** - Testing strategy, coverage targets, patterns
- **`agents/rules/frontend.mdc`** - Frontend development patterns and accessibility
- **`agents/rules/database.mdc`** - Database schema design and query optimization
- **`agents/rules/style.mdc`** - Code style guidelines and formatting rules

## Agent-Based Development

This template uses specialized agents for different aspects of development:

### FrontendAgent
Handles UI/UX development, component creation, design system implementation, and accessibility compliance.

### BackendAgent
Manages API development, business logic, authentication, authorization, rate limiting, and security middleware.

### DatabaseAgent
Owns database schema design, migrations, query optimization, and data access patterns.

### TestAgent
Implements comprehensive testing strategy across unit, integration, E2E, accessibility, and security testing.

### SecurityAgent
Ensures security-first development with input validation, authentication patterns, authorization checks, and OWASP compliance.

### ReviewerAgent
Performs code reviews focusing on correctness, security, performance, test coverage, and accessibility.

## Core Principles

### Security-First Development
- Validate all inputs at application boundaries with schema validation
- Authenticate and authorize every protected endpoint
- Rate limit public endpoints to prevent abuse
- Sanitize outputs to prevent injection attacks
- Never expose sensitive data in error messages or logs

### Testing Strategy
- **Unit Tests**: 80% coverage for business logic
- **Integration Tests**: 15% coverage for API endpoints and database operations
- **E2E Tests**: 5% coverage for critical user journeys
- **Accessibility Tests**: WCAG 2.1 AA compliance for all UI

### Type Safety
- Use strong typing systems available in your chosen language
- Implement runtime validation for all external/user-provided data
- Validate at boundaries: API endpoints, form submissions, configuration
- Generate types from schemas when possible (OpenAPI, GraphQL, database schemas)

### Code Quality
- Maintain consistent patterns throughout the codebase
- Follow established code style guidelines
- Ensure proper error handling and logging
- Keep documentation updated with code changes

## Security Patterns

### Input Validation Example

```typescript
// TypeScript with Zod
import { z } from 'zod'

const userSchema = z.object({
  email: z.string().email().toLowerCase(),
  password: z.string().min(8)
})
```

```python
# Python with Pydantic
from pydantic import BaseModel, EmailStr

class User(BaseModel):
    email: EmailStr
    password: str
```

### Rate Limiting Example

```javascript
// Node.js with express-rate-limit
const rateLimit = require('express-rate-limit')

const authLimiter = rateLimit({
  windowMs: 15 * 60 * 1000, // 15 minutes
  max: 5, // 5 attempts per window
  message: 'Too many authentication attempts'
})
```

## Testing Strategy

### Coverage Targets
- **Unit Tests**: 80% coverage for business logic
- **Integration Tests**: 15% coverage for API endpoints and database operations
- **E2E Tests**: 5% coverage for critical user journeys

### Testing Tools by Technology

**JavaScript/TypeScript:**
- Unit/Integration: Jest, Vitest, or framework-specific test runners
- E2E: Playwright, Cypress, or Selenium
- Component: Testing Library, Enzyme

**Python:**
- Unit/Integration: pytest, unittest
- E2E: Selenium, Playwright
- API: requests, httpx

**Go:**
- Unit/Integration: Built-in testing package, testify
- E2E: Selenium, Playwright
- HTTP: httptest package

## AI Assistant Integration

### Cursor
Rules are automatically loaded from:
- `.cursorrules` file
- `agents/rules/*.mdc` files with `alwaysApply: true`
- `AGENTS.md` and `CLAUDE.md` (via workspace rules)

### GitHub Copilot
Instructions are automatically loaded from:
- `.github/copilot-instructions.md`

### Other AI Assistants
Reference `AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md` explicitly in your prompts:
- "Follow the patterns in `AI_INSTRUCTIONS.md`"
- "Check `AGENTS.md` for agent delegation"
- "Apply security patterns from `agents/rules/security.mdc`"

## Usage Examples

### Frontend Development
```
"Create a responsive navigation component with accessibility support"
"Redesign the user profile page following our design system"
"Implement the login form with proper validation"
```

### Backend Development
```
"Create a secure user registration endpoint with rate limiting"
"Implement JWT authentication middleware"
"Add password reset functionality with email verification"
```

### Database Operations
```
"Design a user roles and permissions schema"
"Create a migration to add audit logging"
"Optimize the user query to prevent N+1 problems"
```

## Documentation

### Getting Started
1. Review `CLAUDE.md` for architecture and technology selection guidance
2. Check `AGENTS.md` for agent responsibilities and delegation patterns
3. Reference `agents/rules/*.mdc` files for detailed implementation patterns
4. Configure your AI assistant using the appropriate configuration file

### Additional Resources
- **Architecture**: See `CLAUDE.md` for detailed architecture guidelines
- **Agent Usage**: See `AGENTS.md` for detailed agent responsibilities
- **Security**: See `agents/rules/security.mdc` for security patterns
- **Testing**: See `agents/rules/testing.mdc` for testing strategy
- **Code Style**: See `agents/rules/style.mdc` for formatting rules

## Quality Gates

All code must meet these standards:
- Pass linting and formatting checks
- Meet minimum test coverage thresholds (80% unit, 15% integration, 5% E2E)
- Pass security scans without high-severity issues
- Pass accessibility tests for user-facing features
- Follow established patterns and conventions

## Contributing

When contributing to this template:
1. Maintain technology-agnostic patterns
2. Update relevant rule files in `agents/rules/`
3. Keep documentation synchronized with code changes
4. Follow security and testing patterns
5. Ensure AI assistant configurations remain compatible

---

**Ready to start building?** Choose your technology stack, adapt the configuration files, and begin development with enterprise-grade patterns from day one.
